Today we learnt about 
1. Session Manager
Secure shell access to EC2 without needing SSH/RDP
Key Points: Remote access without need of inbound ports
Logging and editing for session activity
Allows access to instance in private subnet, no need for public ip
Integrates with Systems Manager for Automation

2. Route 53
DNS service for routing traffic to resource

Key Points: Domain registration and DNS routing management
Configures routing policies based on simple routing policy, weighted policies, latency-based policy, geolocation policy.
Its is used for Health checks and DNS failover to improve availabiltiy.
Integrates with CloudFront and ALB for dynamic routing.

3. CloudTrail
Monitors and records AWS API calls.

Key Points: Tracks changes made to AWS resources and user activities.
Logs are stored in S3 for security and analysis
Integrates with CloudWatch for real-time monitoring.


4. CloudWatch
Monitoring and observability service for AWS resources.

Key Points: Collects logs, metrics and events from AWS resources.
Setup alarms to trigger automated actions.
Integrates with Auto Scaling and Lambda for automated actions.
Helps in visualized resources and observe performance and health status.

5. Auto-Scaling:
Automatically adjusts resources and meet demand.

Key Points: Scales EC2 machines and other resources on basis of real time needs.

6. Lambda: 
Serverless compute service on AWS which runs code in resonce to external events.

7. AWS Shield:
DDoS protection for AWS service.
Shield standard automatically protects AWS customers
Shield Advanced offers enahanced protection from real-time threats
Protects resources like CloudFront, Route 53, ALB

8. AWS WAF:
Protects web application from common security threats.

Key Points: Customizable rules to filter malicious web traffic.
Protects against cross-site scripting and SQL injection and bots
Provides real time logging of web traffic pattern
Integrates with CloudFront ALB and API Gateway

9. Amazon GuradDuty
Threat detection service in AWS.
Continuously monitors AWS accounts for suspicious activity
Detects and notifies of threats if any using ML.

10. Amazon Inspector
Automated vulnerability management service for AWS workloads

Key Points: Continuously scans AWS workloads (EC2 instances, container images, and Lambda functions) for security vulnerabilities.
Helps detect CVE - Common Vulnerability Exposures and resolve.

-----------------------------------------------
Types of records

Record Type                  Purpose                                 Example
A                      Maps record to IPv4 address              app.example.com -> 53.25.33.68
AAAA                   Maps record to IPv6 address              app.example.com -> 2001:db8::1
CNAME                  Maps hostname to another hostname        www.example.com -> app.example.com
Alias                  AWS specific record that points to       example.com -> ALB
                        AWS resource like ALB, CloudFront,
                        S3, API Gateway
MX                     Defines mail servers to receive emails   example.com -> mail.example.com

TXT                    Stores text data for domain verification,    google verification
                         SPF, DKIM, DMARC

**Routing policy
1. Simple Routing Policy
Default routing policy. Routes traffic to single resource. 
No health checks or load balancing

2. Weighted Routing Policy
Distributes traffic based on assigned weights.
Useful for canary deployment
Version1 -> 80%
Version2 -> 20%

3. Latency Based Routing Policy
Routes user to the region with lowest network latency

4. Failover Routing
Used for Active-Passive DR Setup
Requires health checks

5. Geolocation routing 
Routes traffic based on user's geographic location

What is a Hosted Zone ?
A Hosted Zone is a collection of DNS records for a domain in Route 53. 
It acts as a container that tells DNS resolvers how to route traffic for that domain or its subdomains.

Example
Domain: example.com
HostedZone: It is a folder containing all the DNS records for example.com
DNS Records → Individual entries like A, CNAME, MX, TXT, and Alias that define where traffic should go.