Docker is an open-source platform that allows to automate deployment, scaling and management 
of applications inside lightweight portable containers.

1. Containers: Containers are a way to package application and its dependencies in a consistent 
environment regardless of host Systems. They ensure application works in same way as in any 
environment (Dev, Test, QA, Production) because their application is containerized.

Containers are isolated from host but use Hosts kernel, making them light weight compared to traditional virtual machines.

2. DockerFile: 
A Dockerfile is a script containing series of instructions on how to build a docker image.
It specifies: 
From which base image to use
Dependencies to be copied then the source code that has to be copied
How to install dependencies
Cmds to run the docker container

Eg:
FROM alpine:node-12 
WORKDIR /user/pathnex
COPY . .
RUN npm install
EXPOSE 3000
CMD["npm", "start"]

3. Images
Docker image is a read-only template that contains source code, runtime, dependencies, libraries,
environment variables etc.

4. Docker Engine
Docker Engine is the core component that runs docker containers.
It is a client server application. And has 3 main components

It has 3 components
1. Docker Daemon: Docker daemon is the service which runs in the background and manages the
container, images, network, storage volumes. Daemon name = Containerd

2. Docker CLI: CLI that allows users to interact with Docker daemon

3. REST API: Allows external programs to interact with Docker and manage Containers.


5. Docker Compose: Docker compose is a tool for defining and running multi-container Docker 
applications.

version: '3' 
services: 
  web: 
    image: nginx 
    ports: - "8080:80" 
  db: 
    image: sql 
    environment: 
      MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: pathnex 

6. Docker Registry/ECR: A Docker registry is where we can store docker images.
A registry allows us to push and pull images. DockerHub is popular one.
ECR is private registry by AWS.

7. Networking in Docker:
Docker containers are isolated by default, you can control how they communicate with each other
and outside world. 

Network types in Docker
1. Bridge Network: 
- Containers on the same bridge network can communicate with each other.
- Each container gets a separate ip address.
- External access requires port mapping

2. Host Network:
Here the container doesn't have separate ip address. It utilizes host ip to communicate.
No separate container ip and the application listens on host ip.

3. None Network:
Here the containers are completely isolated and does not have access to internet or cannot 
communicate with other containers.

4. Overlay Network:
Overlay network is used for multi-host container communication.
- Connects with containers running on different hosts.
- Requires docker swarm(orchestration) or Kubernetes like orchestration


8. Volumes
Volumes are used for persistent storage in Docker containers. By default, all data in a 
container is ephemeral (i.e., lost when the container is removed), but volumes allow 
you to persist data across container restarts or even container removals. Volumes can 
also be shared between containers. 

Benefits of Docker
Portability- Containers run the same way irrespective of host systems 
Efficiency - Containers are light weight and start up quickly
Isolation - the containers are isolated from each other and host system reducing dependency 
conflicts.

Version controlled - Docker images are versioned, so you can easily rollback to previous
version
CICD integration - Docker integrates well with CICD pipelines.

RUN VS CMD VS ENTRYPOINT

RUN: 
RUN is used to execute commands while building the images
RUN cmd creates a new layer.
RUN is used to install packages and creating directories

CMD                                                 ENTRYPOINT
CMD specifies default cmd/arguments   |  ENTRYPOINT specifies the main executable that 
when the container starts             |  that has to run when container starts
                                      |
Can be overridden by arguments passed |  ENTRYPOINT remains fixed unless, overridden by
to docker run                         |  --entrypoint 

CMD doesn't create a layer, it stores |  ENTRYPOINT doesnot create a layer, it stores
default startup command               |  startup executable




COPY vs ADD

COPY                                                 ADD
Copy can copy files and directories    |    ADD can copy files and directories as well
COPY cannot copy/download from URLs    |    ADD can download files from URLs
                                       |    ADD can automatically extract local .tar archives
COPY cannot automatically extract      |
local .tar archives




Practice docker 
https://github.com/pathnex/pathnex-docker.git

What is multistaged dockerfile ?
A multi-staged dockerfile uses multiple FROM statements to separate build environment
with runtime environment. In runtime the build executables/binaries are pushed so size reduces.
It reduces the image size.
Removes unnecessary build tools


Steps to optimize Docker images
1. Use smaller base images like alpine
2. Use multi-stage Docker files
3. Combine RUN cmds rather than running them separately
4. Use .dockerignore to avoid un-necessary files in docker builds
5. Use COPY instead of ADD cmd, it is lighter.