Topic: Kubernetes

Scale-in and Scale-out - That is decrease or increase of size.

a. Horizontal Scaling: Horizontal Scaling increasing of number of instances.
b. Vertical Scaling: Vertical scaling means increasing or decreasing the power/size of instances.

**Kubernetes is an open-source container orchestration platform used to automate the 
deployment, scaling, and management of containerized application.

Kubernetes Arhitecture:
Control Plane and Worker Plane

Control Plane: Control plane is responsible for the management of EKS cluster.
It takes decision about managing cluster viz scheuling, when and where to run pod or 
managing the desired state of cluster.

Data Plane: Data plane contains worker nodes which run pods and containers on top of it.

Explain Kubernetes architecture
API-server: 
API server is the entry point or way for users to interact with the EKS cluster.
It serves as a communication hub for all K8s components like workers, etcd, controller, etc

Scheduler: Scheduler tracks the newly created pods which have no assigned nodes and then 
places them on suitable worked nodes.
Scheduler considers CPU, memory and affinity rules to decide where to deploy pod.

etcd: ETCD is a key-pair like data store for Kubernetes which stores cluster's state data. 
It is crucial component for storing desired state of cluster.

controller-manager: The controller manager ensures that the current state of the system 
matches the desired state. It continuously watches for changes and takes corrective actions.

Cloud-controller-manager: Manages cloud-specific components, such as load balancers and storage 
volumes, if your Kubernetes cluster is running in a cloud environment (AWS, GCP, Azure). 


##Some controllers
ReplicaSet Controller: (ensures the desired number of replicas for pods are maintained)
Deployment Controller (manages deployments)
Job Controller (handles batch jobs). 
Node Controller (handles node lifecycle).

Worker nodes: Worker nodes (also known as Minions) are where the actual application workloads 
(containers) run. Each node runs several important components that allow them to run the 
desired applications. 

kubelet: Kubelet is an agent running in each worker node which makes sure containers are
running properly inside the pods and as per desired state.
kubelet communicates with the API server to ensure the nodes and pods are properly configured. 

kubeproxy: The kube-proxy is responsible for maintaining network rules on each node. It 
allows pods to communicate with each other and with services inside the 
cluster.

Namespaces: Namespaces are used to divide cluster resources into separate virtual environments 
within the same Kubernetes cluster. 

Interview question:
What are default Namespaces in EKS ?
- default: Used if no namespace is specified while creating resources. 
- kube-system:  Contains system components like DNS, scheduler, controller manager, etc.
- kube-public: Accessible to all users; mainly for public cluster information.
- kube-node-lease: Used for node heartbeat and node availability tracking